Hey everybody, welcome back to Boost
Your Income with Bootstrap to WordPress.
This lecture is called Coding
the Header and Navigation Section.
[MUSIC]
All right, so the first thing we
wanna do is open up our code editor.
And make sure to open
your index.html file,
the file that we've been working with.
And in this lecture we're gonna
be adding our header section
with the navigation bar and
we're gonna be using some bootstrap.
HTML with some CSS classes in there, so
that we can utilize the bootstrap
CSS that is pre-built.
And on that thought, I already know,
that we haven't included
a link to our bootstrap CSS.
That's incredibly important.
So why don't we right here,
under our title.
Before we start anything,
this will save some headaches.
Add a comment here, Bootstrap core CSS,
and under there we're gonna add a link.
And the href will be
assets/CSS/bootstrap.min,
now CSS using min because it's
minified and takes less time to load.
Plus we won't be modifying the CSS.
So we don't need to access
the full readable CSS file.
That'll save some time, rel stylesheet.
Great.
And save that.
Now, we have access to
our Bootstrap course CSS.
Now, let's jump right in and start coding.
So in here, in our header.
Why don't we get started right away, and
give this header class of site-header.
And the role banner role is an attribute.
It just gives us a little bit more,
makes the code a little more semantic.
Class site header, we'll probably use
that a little bit later in WordPress, and
it just makes our code
a little bit more semantic.
So we know that this
header is the site header,
cuz we will likely use the header,
HML somewhere else throughout the site.
Okay, within our header,
let's add a comment, html comment.
This will be NAVBAR.
All right.
Let's do a div.
Let's give that div
the class of navbar-wrapper.
That is a Bootstrap class and
I just like adding comments here.
Navbar-wrapper so I know,
that that is the ending div.
And in here we're gonna add
a bunch of bootstrap html.
I'll show you what I'm going to be coding.
So I'll code this really fast here, but
I'll show you where you can reference it.
You can obviously
reference the final static.
HTML file or right here and
get getbootstrap.com/components, if you
were to go to navbar, the default navbar.
They give you code right here,
that you can just copy.
So this code right here
gives you this navbar.
Our navbar obviously, looks different.
It's very simple.
We have the logo brand right here and
just a few navigation
items pulled to the right.
So you would basically use
all of this HTML here, but
you remove the HTML that
you don't actually need.
We don't need the drop downs.
We don't need the search.
We don't need all that sort of stuff.
And I've already done that and
included it in the static HTML file.
But I'll go ahead and code that right now.
And the CSS classes that
you'll see that I'm using,
those are the built in
Bootstrap CSS classes.
So if you're confused thinking Brad,
what are all these classes you're
just coming off the top of your head?
They're actually Bootstrap classes.
You can reference them and
see them in the actual Bootstrap CSS
if you want to know a little
bit more about what they do.
But this course isn't necessarily about
how Bootstrap works and how the CSS works.
It's basically, let's use Bootstrap
to build a website real fast.
So here we go, real fast,
let's code this navbar.
All right.
So div,
we're gonna give it the class of navbar.
Again, and
these are all Bootstrap classes.
Also, navbar-inverse,
this is gonna make the navbar
black rather than white or gray.
Navbar-fixed-top, that is going to
make the navbar fixed at the top.
So when you scroll down it will
always stay at the very top.
Role, navigation,
makes just a little bit more semantic
and inside of here, let's just give
that a comment and say navbar.
I like when I can see,
what my div's are doing.
Div, we're going to give that the class
of container, that's going to wrap.
That's a Bootstrap class.
And it will give us
the content inside the navbar.
Right now, the navbar's full, but
we want the content within it,
our brand logo and the navigation items.
We want those to be within a container.
That is centered in
the middle of the screen.
So that's what that is going to do.
Bam.
Just like that.
Real easy.
Div class navbar/header.
Again, make sure you have
class inside navbar header.
We're going to add a button,
and that button will have
the type of button,
the class navbar toggle and
basically what this is gonna do
it's gonna toggle the navbar
when it's responsive when
you shrink the website.
You'll get a little sandwich icon that
you can click to toggle the navbar, and
that's what Bootstrap will be doing here.
Data toggle,
this is a Bootstrap attribute,
collapse data target,
bootstrap attribute class,
so .navbar-collapse.
So these things just so, I can like be
very minimal about my explanation here,
these are just default Bootstrap
attributes and classes.
They're on the getbootstrap.com website.
All the documentation there is if you
want to know, what these are all about.
But essentially, all you need to
know is they work, so use them.
All right.
Span, we're gonna have some spans here.
This first one, class sr only.
That's a Bootstrap class for
screen readers only.
It will only show this text,
toggle navigation.
If you're visiting the site from
a screen reader which is good.
People with visual impairment or anything
like that, the screen reader will read
this text and will tell them that this
button, it will talk about the navigation.
So really great for usability.
You should always think about usability.
No excuses.
So icon bar copy that two more times.
This is just gonna give us a little line.
Bootstrap class, this is gonna give us
three lines, so it looks like a sandwich.
After that, why don't we save that and
just give that a little look.
All right, so here is our navigation bar.
It's just a big black bar at the top,
we have nothing inside of it.
Technically, everything's good so far.
Let's shrink that.
There's our sandwich.
Perfect.
Let's go back to our code,
and let's continue.
We're gonna add an a tag with
the class of navbar-brand and
the href of forwardslash dot.
That will basically tell bootstrap,
cuz there's some CSS in
the bootstrap CSS that will align
the logo of the website in the correct
spot in the navigation bar.
Plus it's semantic.
Image, source,
assets/img/logo.png alt tag,
don't forget your alt tags.
This one will be Bootstrap to WordPress.
And I'm gonna save that.
And then below our navbar header.
We have another div, and that div
will have the class of navbar-collapse and
collapse.
So collapse, there we go.
Basically, if you look here this button,
the data target and toggle,
you see the navbar toggle,
and the data toggle collapse,
and we're right here, navbar collapse and
data toggle collapse.
So this is telling the html to look for
this div right here.
So when you click this button right
here it's gonna toggle this div and
the content within it.
And so maybe you guessed it.
In here,
we're gonna put our navigation items.
So UL class of nav,
navbar-nav, navbar-write.
Not really sure why there has to be so
many class is there,
but that's the way Bootstrap does it.
This will pull our navigation bar
to the right, so that's useful.
Navbar-nav not really sure
what that ones about.
And nav again,
there just part of the Bootstrap CSS.
Documentation probably explains it.
It works, it works.
We're good to go.
All right.
In here, we're gonna have some li tags.
The first one,
will have li class of active.
And that is a custom class that we're
gonna be doing a little bit later.
We're gonna have to make the navigation
bar, the item that you're currently on,
the page that you're on,
we want to highlight that navigation item.
So that people know hey, I'm on the home
page, hey, I'm on blog page, so
on and so forth.
So I'm just gonna put that there
because it will be used eventually.
If you forget at this point, that's okay.
We'll come across the issue a little
bit later and then, we'll add it.
A href, and that will be forward slash,
and that will be the home.
So that one is a class of active.
Below that we're gonna add some more.
There will be no class on that one.
A href blog.html.
So we don't have a blog.html page yet,
but we will.
So I'm just gonna put it in there now,
so we don't have to do it later.
Blog.html, this item will be blog.
Copy that, paste it a couple more times.
Now, you just need to change these values.
So resources this text will be
resources and this one will be contact.
And that will be contact sieve that.
And let's check it out and see,
if we've got ourselves a nice navbar.
There we go.
We got our logo, Bootstrap to WordPress,
Home, Blog, Resources, Contact.
Looking pretty good.
And you see how it's active.
There we go.
I just realized, I lied.
The active class is not my class.
I didn't add that.
It's actually Bootstrap class.
There is an active class.
My mistake.
That's okay.
So this is the active class.
So whatever item has active
on it will look like that.
And will obviously,
in the future use WordPress to
dynamically decide what page we are on.
Awesome.
So that is our header and navigation bar.
All in this snippet, right here.
Hopefully that made sense to you.
And I'll see you in the next lecture.
Where we're gonna be coding ourselves, the
hero section, this nice one right here.
All right, see there friends.
[MUSIC]